.\"
.\" Analog by Stephen R. E. Turner, copyright (c) 1995 - 2004.
.\"
.\" See http://www.analog.cx/docs/Licence.txt or Licence.txt in your
.\" analog docs directory for the full licence information.
.\"
.TH analog 1 "Version 6.0    19 December 2004" "Analog"
.SH NAME
analog \- web server logfile analyser
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBanalog \-\-help
.br
analog\fP
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fB1\fP]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fB4\fP]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fB5\fP]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fB6\fP]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fB7\fP]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBA\fP] [(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBa\fP]
[\fB\-B\fP|\fB+B\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-b\fP|\fB+b\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBC\fP'\fIconfiguration-line\fP'] 
[\fB\-c\fP|\fB+c\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBD\fP]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBd\fP]
[\fB\-E\fP|\fB+E\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-F\fP|\fB+F\fP\fIdate\fP]
[\fB\-f\fP|\fB+f\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-G\fP]
[\fB+g\fP\fIfilename\fP]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBH\fP]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBh\fP]
[\fB\-I\fP|\fB+I\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-i\fP|\fB+i\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-J\fP|\fB+J\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-j\fP|\fB+j\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-K\fP|\fB+K\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-k\fP|\fB+k\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-L\fP|\fB+L\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-l\fP|\fB+l\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-M\fP|\fB+M\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBm\fP]
[\fB\-N\fP|\fB+N\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-n\fP|\fB+n\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB+O\fP\fIoutput-file\fP]
[\fB\-o\fP|\fB+o\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBP\fP]
[\fB\-p\fP|\fB+p\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBQ\fP]
[\fB\-q\fP|\fB+q\fP[[\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP]\fItypes\fP]]
[\fB\-R\fP|\fB+R\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-r\fP|\fB+r\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-S\fP|\fB+S\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBS\fP]
[\fB\-T\fP|\fB+T\fP\fIdate\fP]
[\fB\-t\fP|\fB+t\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBU\fP\fIcache\fP]
[\fB\-u\fP|\fB+u\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-V\fP|\fB+V\fP[[\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP]\fItypes\fP]]
[\fB\-v\fP|\fB+v\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBW\fP]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBw\fP]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBX\fP]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBx\fP]
[\fB\-Y\fP|\fB+Y\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-y\fP|\fB+y\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[\fB\-Z\fP|\fB+Z\fP[\fIoptions\fP]]
[(\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBz\fP]
[\fB\-\-settings\fP]
[\fIlogfile\fP...]
.TP
but normally just
.TP
.B analog\fP [\fB-G\fP] [\fB+g\fP\fIfilename\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBAnalog\fP is a program for analyzing log files, and is designed to be fast 
and to produce attractive statistics.

The usual (and easier) way of configuring \fBanalog\fP is through a
configuration file, not command line options.
For more information about writing a configuration file or about the command
line options see \fIReadme.html\fP in the \fBanalog\fP documentation.
A description of what \fIoptions\fP are available for the non-time 
reports is available in \fIothreps.html#othclarg\fP in the \fBanalog\fP
documentation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display version and help information and exit.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fB1
Toggle the Yearly Report.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fB4
Toggle the Quarter-Hour Report.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fB5
Toggle the Five-Minute Report.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fB6
Toggle the Quarter-Hour Summary.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fB7
Toggle the Five-Minute Summary.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBA
Turn all the reports (except the General Summary) off or on.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBa
Toggle output style between \fIHTML\fP and \fIPLAIN\fP formats, respectively.
.TP
.B -B\fP|\fB+B\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Browser Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -b\fP|\fB+b\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Browser Summary off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBC\fP'\fIconfiguration-line\fP'
Include \fIconfiguration-line\fP in the configuration commands.
.TP
.B -c\fP|\fB+c\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Status Code Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBD
Toggle the Daily Report.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBd
Toggle the Daily Summary.
.TP
.B -E\fP|\fB+E\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Redirection Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B \-F\fP|\fB+F\fP\fIdate\fP
Toggle or set the \fIFROM\fP date.  Use \fB-F\fP to turn the \fIFROM\fP date 
off, and use \fB+F\fP\fIdate\fP to set the \fIFROM\fP date.
.TP
.B -f\fP|\fB+f\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Referrer Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B \-G
Do not use the default configuration file.
.TP
\fB+g\fP\fIfilename\fP
Add \fIfilename\fP to the list of configuration files.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBH
Turn the Hourly Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBh
Toggle the Hourly Summary.
.TP
.B -I\fP|\fB+I\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Failure Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -i\fP|\fB+i\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Directory Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -J\fP|\fB+J\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the User Failure Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -j\fP|\fB+j\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the User Redirection Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -K\fP|\fB+K\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Failed Referrer Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -k\fP|\fB+k\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Redirected Referrer Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -L\fP|\fB+L\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Host Failure Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -l\fP|\fB+l\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Host Redirection Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -M\fP|\fB+M\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Virtual Host Failure Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBm
Toggle the Monthly Report.
.TP
.B -N\fP|\fB+N\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Search Query Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -n\fP|\fB+n\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Search Word Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBO\fP\fIoutput-file\fP
Write output to \fIoutput-file\fP. Use - for stdout.
.TP
.B -o\fP|\fB+o\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Domain Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBP
Toggle the Processing Time Report.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBp
Toggle the Operating System Report.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBQ
Toggle the Quarterly Report.
.TP
.B \-q\fP|\fB+q\fP[[\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP]\fItypes\fP]
Turn all warnings off/on, or remove/add/use exactly specified \fItypes\fP of
warnings.
.TP
.B -R\fP|\fB+R\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Virtual Host Redirection Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -r\fP|\fB+r\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Request Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -S\fP|\fB+S\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Host Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -s\fP|\fB+s\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Referring Site Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B \-T\fP|\fB+T\fP\fIdate\fP
Toggle or set the \fITO\fP date.  Use \fB-T\fP to turn the \fITO\fP date off, 
and use \fB+T\fP\fIdate\fP to set the \fITO\fP date.
.TP
.B -t\fP|\fB+t\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the File Type Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBU\fP\fIcache\fP
Use file \fIcache\fP for cache output.
.TP
.B -u\fP|\fB+u\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the User Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B \-V\fP|\fB+V\fP[[\fB\-\fP|\fB+\fP]\fItypes\fP]
Turn all debugging off/on, or remove/add/use exactly specified \fItypes\fP
of debugging messages.
.TP
.B -v\fP|\fB+v\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Virtual Host Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBW
Toggle the Weekly Report.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBw
Toggle the Hour of the Week Report.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBX
Toggle GOTOS (on and off only).
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBx
Toggle the General Summary.
.TP
.B -Y\fP|\fB+Y\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Internal Search Query Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -y\fP|\fB+y\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Internal Search Word Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
.B -Z\fP|\fB+Z\fP[\fIoptions\fP]
Turn the Organization Report off or on, possibly setting \fIoptions\fP.
.TP
(\fB-\fP|\fB+\fP)\fBz
Toggle the File Size Report.
.TP
\fB\-\-settings
Instead of processing any files, display in English the settings \fBanalog\fP
would use if it ran normally. This is useful for troubleshooting.
.TP
\fIlogfile\fP...
The logfiles to be analysed. Use \- for stdin.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The analog home page at \fIhttp://www.analog.cx/\fP
.br
The analog documentation on your local machine, or from the analog home page.
.SH BUGS
An up to date list of known bugs and bug fixes can be found at
\fIhttp://www.analog.cx/bugs.html\fP
.SH AUTHORS
.B Analog\fP and related documentation was written by Stephen Turner 
<\fIanalog-author@lists.meer.net\fP>, with contributions from other authors.
(See \fIacknow.html\fP in the \fBanalog\fP documentation.)
This man page was written by Alexander Toth <\fIalex@purificator.net\fP>.
